we can now speak to Ahmed SED he's a
surgeon who's just returned from Gaza
where he spent two weeks working with
the humanitarian organization RMA
worldwide he joins us now from London
doctor thank you for being with us on Al
jazer I understand you've just come back
from the strip you were there as part of
a delegation of Medical Specialists can
you tell us a little bit about what you
were
doing so uh it's a pretty shocking the
last two weeks have been extremely uh
shocking to me and my colleagues we went
there as aoup group of of surgeons and
in to help out uh with the
casualities uh we were based in the
European uh General Hospital and uh it's
been very very difficult for all of us
to be
honest uh seeing all these casualities
and come in after uh the destruction of
all the bigger hospitals this is a
relatively small Hospital 240 bedded
obviously
overwhelmed with with the amount of
casualities coming in with the number of
hostages tens of thousands of hostages
all over the place uh and all these
things just add to the stresses uh of of
of the of the job and the situation on
the ground doctor just for clarity there
you said tens of thousands of hostages
you mean people who were trapped in the
hospital I mean I mean I mean refugees
refugees uh tens of thousands of
refugees uh flying all over the place
you admit a patient
uh onto a a bed and the whole family is
there uh and when the patient is well
enough to go home the family just stays
there because it's not safe to leave the
hospital
premises uh it's it's uh you're you're
we were operating around 40 to 50 cases
a day a lot of patients unfortunately
lose lose their their limbs and these
patients don't just lose their limbs
they they are sent out to a very
infected environment a lot of patients
almost all cases do get wound infections
and and plus uh dropping off their their
limbs and need reamputations at higher
levels um I recall I'll just give some
samples but obviously uh these these are
not just names these are these these are
not just numbers the the human beings
young uh girl 20 uh 21 years of age uh
had a right amputation above the knee
and then unfortunately on on further
treatment the in
seeped through and we had to completely
dis articulate her hip joint and there's
only so high you can go and with every
time you go up high the chances of her
survival goes down uh and if she does
survive the the disability becomes more
severe uh meaning that if you've got a
below knee amputation that's something
that you may be able to walk with with
with a prosthesis but when you go up to
the hip you're really really in a
difficult situation of course let alone
the patients that have other problems
from before so uh I I I was uh treating
a lady who had uh two amputations both
leg legs and because of her underlying
leukemia she's not healing at all
there's no signs of of her body a able
to close up those wounds H and and these
These are these are young patients these
are patients in the 20s and 17s kids
H and even when they stay in the
hospital they're still not safe Yeah you
mentioned you mentioned a lot of a lot
of kids and young people we know that
more than 70% of those who've been
killed in Gaza have been women and
children was that demographic reflected
in in the kinds of patients you were
seeing yes definitely yes I have not
seen a single militant or Army Force
come to the hospital all my patients and
all my col Le patients are civilians
mainly children women and men that have
are civilians they are very tired
they're very exhausted they're very uh
everyone has lost a family
member the one of the surgical
assistants I was surprised and shocked
to hear that she just lost her father uh
another uh anesthetic uh assistant uh
when he was asked how how's your family
he just collapsed he collapsed because
almost all his family died his mom his
his dad his kids they're all
dead Doctor you you mentioned I mean
these these medical professionals are
still going to work despite the trauma
that they're they're living through you
spoke a lot about amputations there were
those the the primary injuries you were
treating what other kinds of wounds were
you
seeing okay so so the more common forms
of wounds are uh from what is called
known as the quad copter these are
bullets and they're not just set machine
guns that go across uh shedding bullets
no they have uh Hightech visualization
and they can even talk to the uh to the
uh to the uh civilians around them uh
and one of the most most shocking things
is that they come from head to toe so
for example gazel was was a young
10-year-old girl she came to me the
casuality and she was talking absolutely
fine saying I can't move any of my hands
or legs because the bullet passed
through the spine wow at level C6 the
neck vertebra column the sixth vertebra
so it just cut off all the signals to
the arms and legs and and it's that's it
she's quadri pleased for Life what
what's her
fault this is a 10-year-old girl doctor
what's her fault you were talking there
about how the tens of thousands of
people who are who are also still in the
hospital aren't safe did did you at any
point fear for your safety we obviously
know that that hospitals and medical
facilities have become Targets in this
war oh definitely yes so at any any
second you are being surveillanced by
drones that have face
recognition uh after the I mean when I
arrived there were already very heavily
bombarding uh narur Hospital which is
just 15 minute Walks from uh from from
uh from the European hospital and and uh
and uh one of the bombs which was uh by
F16 uh shed a a shrapnel that hit the
skull of a 10-year-old at the doorways
of the European Hospital what happened
to that kid he basically lost a part of
his skull and his underlying brain swoll
and he lost Consciousness and for two
days before I left he never regained it
and I've sent you the pictures you might
be able to to show it he's been on on on
the ventilator mechanical ventilator and
itu since and he's unlikely to ever come
back and this is someone that thought he
was safe No One Is Safe doctor you say
that you were traumatized by what you've
seen there over the last two weeks
having seen what you've seen let me ask
you what is your message right now for
the International Community for people
who haven't been on the ground there in
Gaza I think I I think uh the world uh
now has woken up as as as as a public
that the politicians uh uh of the
superpower so-called superpower uh
countries have no uh Hearts they have no
feelings this is 5 months now and you've
just been talking about further
attacking the most heav uh
populated area in RAF just to get some
hostages while they could have easily
let the hostages from uh the IDF come
out and in exchange for the safe uh
Israeli host just to go back why do you
have to kill everyone there's no point I
I fail to see any sense for these
politicians you can easily take your
hostages back and just give uh the the
Palestinians their hostages why do you
have to destroy all these people and
you're talking about 30,000 mortalities
and a lot more uh disabled
and a lot more under the rubble yeah
under the rubble Dr Ahmed there a
surgeon who's just returned from Gaza
thank you so much for sharing your
experiences with us here on Al jaaz
doctor and we wish you all the best with
your work in
future thank you